GIT ::

Personal access tokens (classic) --- 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


Version control tool --
Version control tool is a tool which is used to keep a track of project related files and directory.

2 types of version control tools
a) distributed version control tool
b) centralised version control tool


Distributed and centralised version control tool ( git and SVN)?

Distributed -git is a distributed version control tool. The whole repo will be in local repo if i want to go previous version of a code i can get it from local workspace itself.
centralised -SVN is a centralised version control tool. The only the latest version of a code will be there in local workspace. If i required previous version of code then i need to check out from central repo.

Distributed - Git has many advance feature's lie reset, fetch, stach 
centralised --In case of SVN we dont have direct commands for all this


ex for Distributed version control tool is GIT, BITBUCKET, GITLAB.
ex for centralised version control tool  is SVN, CVS.



GIT --

GIt is a version control tool which is used to keep track of project related file and directory.


GIT Architecture --

It Consist of 3 stages
1) workspace  - It is a place where we edit Project related file's
2) Stagging area - It is an intermediate area where we save the changes
3) GIT Local Repo or GIR Repo - Here version of files will be traced. After executing git commit command file's will be moved the local repo.

Personal access tokens (classic) --- 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

Git init  --- 
Used to Create or initialize a git repo
Syn : git init


Git clone :

It is used to copy a central or remote repo to the local workspace for the first time.

syn : git clone https(url)


git config --global user.name "vivek-co"
It is used to configure the username 

git config --global user.email "vivekco1998@gmail.com"
It is used to configure the mail id of the user

git status
It is used to check weather the files or in workspace or staging area or in local repo
syn : git status


Git add ?

It is used to move a file from workspace to the staging area

git add filename [It will move specific file to staging area]

Git add . [It will move all the modified files to the staging area ]


Git commit ?
It is used to move the files from staging area to the local git repo. It is used to save or commit the changes to the local repo
syn : Git commit -m "commit message"

git log :
It is used to check the history of the repo.

git log -3 ?
it will history of the last three commits

Git commit filename 
It will display History of that files (Commits of that file)


Branch :
Is used for Parallel development, If two team's are working on the same piece of code then we will create a branch and integrate the changes by merging.

git branch :

It is used to display all branches (Active Branches)
syn : git branch

git branch -a :
It is used to display all brances (Both active and inactive branches)

git checkout branchname :
It is used to swith to another Branch
ex : git checkout dev
or
git checkout main


git branch branchname :
It will create a news branch from checkout branch.


Git checkout -b branchname :

It is used to create a new branch and switch to the newly created branch automatically


git branch -d barnchname :
It is used to delete the branch in local Repo

git push origin --delete branchname :

It is used to delete the branch in the central Repo

Git push :
It is used to copy the changes local repo to the central repo.
syn : git push origin master (It will push all the changes to master branch) 

git push origin --all :
It is used to push all the changes from more than one branch of local repo to the respective branch in central repo.

git merge :
It is used to merge the changes from one branch to another branch.
syn : git merge branchname.
ex : I need to merge the changes from Dev to main branch?
step 1: Make a changes in Dev1 branch
step 2: we need to checkout main branch first - [git checkout main] 
step 3: Merge the changes from Dev  [git merge Dev].


Tag :
tag is a name given to set of version's of files and dir. tag is easy to remember in the future. It indicates the milestone of a project

Git tag  :
list all the tags

Git tag tagname :
used to tag with the updated version.

Git tag -d tagname :
It is used to delete the tag locally

git checkout tagname  :
It is used to checkout the source code from specific tag

git push origin tagname :

It is used to push the tag to the remote repo

git push --tags :
It is used to more than one tag to the remote repo

git push origin --delete tagname :

It is used to delete the tag in the remote repo.

git switch -c branchname :
Changes will be saved to the new branch.

Detached Head Mode :
when your git repo is not on any branch but rather on a specific commit. This happens when you directly checkout from a commit or a tag. In this mode user can still make any changes and user can do commit and save to the new branch by using the below command
git switch -c branchname 

assignment :
how do you create a empty commit ?